How to Design Functions

This module is where this course starts to differ from other
introductory programming coursesâ€”we are going to start learning the
design method, and this should be new material even for people who
have programmed before.  Learning Goals

    Be able to use the How to Design Functions (HtDF) recipe to design
        functions that operate on primitive data.

    Be able to read a complete function design and identify its different
        elements.

    Be able to evaluate the different elements for
        clarity, simplicity and consistency with each other.

    Be able to evaluate the entire design for how well it solves the given
        problem.

Hints About this Material

We repeat the advice that this is material you learn by doing: for
each video you should download the starter file and type along with
the video. Or you can pause the video occasionally and try to work
ahead, then restart the video and compare what you did to what
happened in the video.

At first the HtDF recipe may seem like overkill, or it may seem
overwhelming. You may suspect that these functions could be written
more quickly without the recipe. You are right! Design methods often
make simple problems harder to solve. Right now we are using simple
problems to learn how to use the design method. This will pay you back
later by making really hard problems much easier to solve.  Planning
Your Time

The material in this module should take approximately 4-7 hours of
dedicated time to complete, including working along with the lecture
videos, doing the questions, working the practice problems and taking
the design quiz.

NOTE: To help you master the design method, much of the video material
consists of the instructor working through a complete design
step-by-step. As a result, in most of the videos, at least part of the
material is essentially review, with new points interspersed
throughout. We could have made the videos shorter by just including
the 'new parts' for each video. But students have told us that it is
more helpful to see the new material in context, as part of complete
design problems. So, in most videos, some of the material will be
review and some of it will be new. This means, there are more minutes
of video than there are minutes of new material.
